# ID2223ProjectElectricityPricePredictor

This project is a scheduled price predictor of electricity prices, specifically in the SE3 area of Sweden, based mainly on weather data and the prices 24h ago as well as specifics surrounding the day of the week, month and time of the day. The SE3 area mainly covers the central-south region, excluding the very southern area, and importantly includes Stockholm as well as Gothenburg. It is therefore a major hub with large demand, causing prices to spike above other areas (mainly the northern ones). 

The independent variables concerning weather conditions are taken from OpenMeteo based on stations in the areas of Stockholm and Gothenburg themselves. Important to notice is however that much of the electricity consumed in these metropolitan hubs was created elsewhere, where the weather conditions likely differed greatly. Thus, the weather features concern the possibility of predicting price based on how the demand and consumption on energy will be affected by the weather, rather than the supply and creation of it.

Furthermore, the model takes the electricity price measured exactly 24h ago into consideration. Additional features concerning electricity prices were explored, e.g. prices for the last few hours or different rolling averages, but the model ended up largely depending on these and predictions flattened out. With the 24h difference in mind as well as the specifics of the day of the week and hour of the day, the model may find short cyclical patterns easier instead of just copying the previously predicted hour without logical daily differences in mind.

The data comes from two sources, firstly the weather data is as previously mentioned taken from Open-Meteo through their Weather Forecast API. This API gives us information regarding the temperature, windspeed, cloud coverage and precipitation in the Stockholm and Gothenburg areas. Secondly, the electricity prices are taken from "Elpriset just nu.se", and their "Elpris API". It is another open-source and free API made to give information regarding electricity prices without complications, once again in JSON format. This API gives us the information needed to both backfill and train our model, as well as updating daily to enable hindcasting while doing inference and forecasting.
